Imagine yourself as an account manager at Parch and
Posey working with the company's largest accounts.
You might want to identify the total sales for accounts with over
250,000 in sales to better understand
the proportion of revenue that comes from these large accounts.
To get this list, let's first get the sum of sales for each account.
We'll order them in descending order,
so we can see all the highest value accounts at the top of the result set.
Now, let's filter that down to just the accounts with more than 250,000 in sales.
You'll notice that the WHERE clause isn't exactly built for this.
The WHERE clause won't
work for this because it doesn't allow you to filter on aggregate columns,
that's where the HAVING clause comes in.
The HAVING clause always goes after
the GROUP BY statement.
You'll also notice that you'll always have a GROUP BY statement,
because HAVING is always going to be used with an aggregate function.
This filters the query down to just the account
ID's with more than 250,000 in total sales.
One thing to keep in mind,
is that this is really only useful when grouping by one or more columns.
If you're aggregating across the entire data set,
the output is only one line anyway,
so there's no need to filter beyond that.